Okay. Well, given what we have
discussed about the prospects for
a crowdfunding investment to be
a positive expected
return investment
and how there is
challenges there,
maybe not prohibitive challenges,
but there certainly
are challenges,
it's possible that
a better way to look
at crowdfunding is that
when people invest,
it's not just about
the expected return.
It's not all about what's
the expected profit here,
and am I making money
here relative to just
putting in the market?
If you think about it, it doesn't
have to be just all
about the money.
If I'm investing in
a crowdfunding site,
maybe I see someone's trying
to do something I think,
"Okay, I like what you're
trying to do that,
I'm going to I'm going to
help you try to do that."
Or "I'll give you some money,
I'd love to get it back.
I'd love to get
a return, but really,
I just liked that you're
trying to make a go with that,
and I'll throw something
your way to see if see
if I can be helpful."
So I could be doing that.
Also, my goals here could be
in the social impact
of this startup.
So I see the start-up
and I like what
I think your company
can do for society.
That it's going to throw off
benefits for society
from my point of view,
and I like the idea of
making that happen.
So I'd like the idea
that this is a company
that they got a goal
of making money and making
money will be good,
but making money in
some sense is a virtue of
them becoming profitable.
Is that this means
they can become
a self-sustaining company
that's throwing off as impact,
get them to the point
where their cash flows
allow them to operate
in perpetuity,
and then they will
they will generate
this social benefit that
I see as the big virtue.
So this has become
actually a big part
of investing in this country
and around the world.
People call it impact investing.
The actual phrase
impact investing
only goes back about
a dozen years.
The concept goes back maybe
a little further than that,
but the idea of
impact investing is.
So I'm investing dollars
and I want to get a return,
but I also have
some other goal in mind
and I'm investing in
companies that I have explicitly
stated as their purpose.
That they are interested not
only in the financial return,
but also in this other goal,
that they view as
a social benefit.
So if I like what they are
pushing as a social benefit,
then I say, "Okay,
I'm going to invest
with you and not
just be looking for dollars,
but also be looking for
that social impact."
So if you look around
the economy these days,
you see this impact
investing playing out
in the public capital markets
where I might invest in
a company because I
like what they do or I
might invest in a company because
I don't like what they do,
but I'm going to use
my votes with the shares,
and I'm going to use my vote.
So I'm going to use
my other influence as
an investor to push the company
in the direction that I think is
this more socially beneficial
direction for them to go.
So you get that in
the public capital markets,
but you also get that in
the startup market too.
So these days, you have
venture capital funds that
are all about impact.
Everything they do, they are
looking for companies that,
yes, have have profit potential.
They definitely want
the company to become
self-sustaining,
but they also have this
social benefit goal in mind,
and that's a big part of
why they're investing.
So it could be accompany
where the product
itself is the impact.
So they're producing a new kind
of stove to use in
developing worlds that don't
pollute so much or maybe
they're producing
a regular commodity product
like coffee beans,
but the way they
source the coffee,
the way they pay for the people
picking the coffee beans
is trying to ensure that
they get a decent wage.
So it could be the project,
it could be the process,
but whatever it is,
they've got a social impact
that they are angling for,
and that's part of
why you're investing.
Not only could that
be part of what's
going on in the
crowdfunding world.
In fact, if you look at
the websites of
the crowdfunding portals,
you'll see that they really
specifically articulate
this kind of
goal as something they see
as a virtual crowdfunding.
So here's a quote. I'm just
going to read you a quote.
I got this off the
Wefunder website.
This is on the website
as of just yesterday.
It says that, "Our
opinion is that
investing should not be solely
about earning a return.
To invest in something
as risky as a startup,
you should feel something
extra beyond
just the business model.
For us, that something extra is
the personal fulfillment
we get from helping
a founder take their shot at
making our world a
slightly better place.
We also think it's pretty
cool to learn about
different industries when we
get updates from the founder."
So they're adding their,
not just the impact
investing idea
and giving someone their shot,
but also once you
invest in a company,
you can just have a window
onto being an entrepreneur.
You might want to be
an entrepreneur yourself.
Maybe you want to quit
the day job and do that,
but before you do that,
why not follow some companies
from the ground up.
Hopefully they go up from
the ground and you
will get the updates,
you will hear from the founder
and see what happens,
and maybe that would guide
you on your own journey.
So just a couple of thoughts
about if you want to
be an impact investor,
there are a couple
guides that you can use
to help you direct
your money to such companies
if that is your goal.
There's two
designations a company
can have that you can look for,
that I would look for
as an impact investor.
One question to ask is,
is this company a
B Corp? What's a B Corp?
A B Corp is a corporation
that has been
designated a B Corp by
a private outfit called B Lab,
and B Lab is all about
impact investing.
A company applies to
B Lab to be a B Corp,
an then B Lab studies
all their practices,
how they pay their workers,
do they pollute?
What's their corporate
governance structure?
All the different things you
might be thinking about.
If you score high enough
on their scorecard,
then you're a B Corp.
There's thousands of B Corps now.
If you look on
the crowdfunding websites,
you'll see plenty of
companies will proudly say,
"We are a B Corp." So that's
one thing to look for.
Not just that they've
been vetted by B Lab,
but B Lab follows up.
You tell them how to judge,
how to measure your impact
against a benchmark
and they do that,
and they will drop you if
you don't come through.
So besides B Corp,
you also have benefit corps.
A benefit corp, that's
actually a legal designation.
You register as a benefit corp
with the state when
you incorporate.
What it means to register as
a benefit corp is that you
articulate what exactly
your impact goal is.
Most states will also make
you not just
articulate what it is,
but also spell out
how your progress against
that goal can be measured.
They will also make you designate
a director on your board
to be in charge of
that impact goal,
and you're also going to be
liable to your investors.
Investors could even sue you over
not pursuing your impact goals.
So they've made
a real legal commitment
to pursuing their impact goal.
As opposed to
just a B Corp that has
got a stamp of approval
from a private outfit,
a benefit corp has actually
legally exposed themselves
to damages if they
don't follow through
on their impact goal.
So those are two things
to look for,
B Corps and then
also benefit corps.
So just to summarize this piece.
So crowdfunding, it can be
hard to justify sometimes.
Crowdfunding investment is
just a purely
financial basis that,
"Yeah, I put in 2,000 bucks in,
but my expected return is enough
more than 2,000 bucks to
justify the expense of
making the investment."
Yeah, maybe, but it can
be hard story to tell.
Maybe it's better
to look at it as,
"I'm getting
some enjoyment here out
of helping someone start
a company that I
think is a neat idea.
I'm also getting some utility
out of the social impact that
I see the company have."
Wefunder tosses in
this third idea that,
"I'm learning about being
an entrepreneur by following
this investment
once I'm involved."
When you put
those things together,
maybe that helps us
explain why some people
put money into
crowdfunding when just
from a pure financial
point of view,
it could be a hard thing
to pencil out.